CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.
MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the Property class?
*console.rb file - simulating what would eventually be the view in MVC.*
Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby Property object into the database?
*property.rb file - here defined methods execute the SQL*
Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?
*4,13,22,31,33*
Q4. Why do we not define the id of a Property object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
*The id should be a primary key assigned by the database, to meddle with that would be trash DB integrity*
Q5. Where and how do we assign the property id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby object?
*Line 32 of property.rb. It is returned from the database id column*
Q6. Why do we put a guard (an ‘if’ clause) on the @id attribute in the constructor?
*If the object has been assigned an ID by the DB then it is to be added as an instance variable and converted to integer as the DB sometimes outputs as a string*
Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others, class methods?
*Some CRUD actions are related to by class methods as they relate to more than one instance of the object*
Q8. What type of data structure is returned by db.exec() and db.exec_prepared(), and how do we index into it to pull out a desired attribute?
*An array containing the object of interest(which in this case is a hash). We index into the array at element [0] and then extract the value for the desired key.*
Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
*Prepared statements allow input data to be extracted/filtered & modified before being submitted to the DB. The idea is a guard against SQL injection attacks*
Extension Questions

Look at the find_by_id and find_by_address methods in the Property class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
*They accept either the ID or address as arguments and there are interpolated in the SQL query*
Q11. What are their return values?
*They return a Property object (which is in fact a hash of the property details)*
